Where were you born here, Southeast washington dc
neighborhood.
Do you play.
I was actually born and raised in a street off Alabama Ave.
Have you lived anywhere else.
Yeah, maybe like eight blocks down and Parkland.
But now that you've always lived in the city. Yes.
He just graduated from high school.
high school.
Where do you go to middle school,
do you currently work.
What do you do have an internship and an apartment at managing.
What do you do their photography photography internship.
I'm taking passport pictures and working on Photoshop six.
So, basically getting comfortable, and they have me shooting with a Nikon D 300 on no issue what I can, but they're teaching me how to use an iPhone.
And other than that.
We have engineers, just learning about different forms of energy, like cold code, and always use solar panels, things of that nature. So what do you want to do.
I want to be a photographer.
And how did the Department of that just seems like is, how does how are they related actually got the internship, to miss.
And she came to art night and SD CPS art show that's hosted in gallery place in the pepco building and Seventh Street. Yes. And there we have students from DC PS and their teachers submit their artwork.
My teacher from my high school Mr.
He submitted found my pieces.
So, when was a lab opportunities, and other for we're on.
We're on the wall.
And there have been a bit a bit annoyed.
But just like different government workers, and people who are interested, and the highest one was the online auction please and so for $650. And I don't want to fail.
I mean, not very close, but not too far, under that range, and all the money that was collected that night goes back to DC PSR programs for our suppliers.
So, what did you take a picture of that was $650 for $650 was my school building.
Recently,
they go they had to school we built.
And we have some fantastic architecture now, and I took a picture from the inside of the school building our cafeteria.
And it was facing outside and outside. We have a courtyard. In the law school, and the weight of Windows curve.
It makes it like a cool picture, and I took that shot from the cafeteria.
And I named a window wave, and so out of the first person after you take that picture I think because the school. Will we would have First Class, Class of 2015 units of graduate, out of the new building.
And we went into the building and halfway through the school year.
So, so he started the old school in the wet January or so, somewhere there about she moved into the new school. Yeah, cool okay so that's kind of jumping way ahead but let's go there for a minute.
So tell me about high school, high school for me I mean I went to the same school for now. Yeah, I mean I'm not here since ninth grade, but for four years.
And when I first got there, of course, Pascual same word eight. So a lot of people pass judgment on it. I mean, back, maybe, 2004.
It was not the best school, and it still isn't the best school, mainly because it's like the neighborhood kids are the ones that are majority, like the majority in school.
So, they come from broken homes, and some have like behavior issues, and it's not any type of standardized test again the school anything like that. So, when people get kicked out of some schools they come to our school or at least that's how I used to
So, when people get kicked out of some schools they come to our school or at least that's how it used to be. And they come out of school, and they get into fights and things like that.
And a lot of valid things they happen.
And now, the school has changed from the, from a time I can't even graduated, I think you got better and better every year, my opinion. What's the biggest change you saw in your four years, my four years the biggest thing is I've seen was the automotive
program, I've been a part of the automotive program, when I was in high school for all four years, and your freshman year you can be automotive student, because they say you're to my playful child if you now to be around cars and things of that nature.
but I did a summer internship.
Last summer, and the summer internship with applying for and and going to, you get class credits for if you take the class during the school year. So my first time I've ever taken a class with Donna summertime and then when I went temporary to the class,
and the 11th grade, I mean temporary somewhat be the summertime, I did the summertime internship again. And I got credit for what they actually started off as
it was a lot more like maintenance type of class, just like development skills. Yeah, it just taught you how to, way back in the day just taught you how to fix law Moore's in a class like work hands on two hands on work.
And I thought, wow, some guy had idea it should be an automotive shop for the students work on cars, and that's what they create it to the help of dark cars and Toyota.
They invest a lot of money into the program and made it internship and paying students. I mean, more than minimum wage and more than summer jobs pays to pay their workers, there's some workers.
So, you get the spring.
And you get paid a nice amount of money and you learn it, and if you really interested in it you can get an internship, and possibly work for cars. After you finish high school.
Do you see a lot of money talked about there was some violence, what do you think was the like the most violent thing you saw, while you were in school and school like school will talk about the neighborhood in a minute.
Maybe a bra.
Just like a lot of kids fighting at the same time.
I mean, but it was just space, there's no guns or knives or do we just fish, and this was possibly.
Nine.
Nine life because I didn't see too many fights in a library or or our own. I was on the fourth floor so a lot of people are for upperclassmen like the first and second, maybe you're there for, like, temporary this will get into a fight sometimes, but
my senior year.
senior year. 2014 walking through the hallway, going into class things my first period class. I was walking past the bathroom, and I seen these two guys, they were like, No, I'm just getting into an altercation, they were arguing.
And I'm not sure what it was about, maybe like a neighborhood related.
So, a guy was telling the other one to our students to the bathroom. He wasn't, I guess fight, but he didn't want to do in front of everybody. He was telling Mr into the bathroom.
So,
after a while I'm just talking, and our green.
One of the guys friends or family members that went to the school, he just hit the other kid, and they fight and doing the talent and fight and one of the guys put out a reasonably.
It was.
It was like,
I'm not sure what type of razor was, but when he pointed out the blade came out, and it fell on the floor, but hadn't happened, someone, possibly could invest day.
And, I mean, of course security was rushing to the fight, but not enough time. I don't think they would get their time, they're reasonably fell out of his head, or just, just the thing that he had in his hand.
Did you see a lot of neighborhood beefs going on, like not even just at school just in general, is that something that you see often.
Yeah. And most of the time is at school.
I mean,
my neighborhood.
I mean I wasn't really born, I was born in a neighborhood. But my neighborhood got torn down.
Maybe like six years seven years prior to me being born. So, just growing up in that neighborhood.
Like bear from somewhere, something that I couldn't like, hold on to, because my neighborhood was torn down, and they may condos, a tournament condominium, so
I moved. And when I moved, I moved to another neighborhood Parkland, not too far from where I was born and raised. And there I didn't really relate well a lot of neighborhood kids because I used to like to still do today like like the skateboard, and
things of that nature so I didn't have too many things in common with, not just the kids in my neighborhood, the young males in my neighborhood, so I always go to street to find people to hang outside and play with.
And I found a group of kids skateboard will ride my bike and things of that nature. So, that kept kept me out of line just being in the mix, or getting down with my neighborhood.
I mean the neighborhood that I moved to get down with those type of individuals that was from there.
So, that me move and kept me out of trouble. And me stable and kept me out of a lot of trouble because there wasn't some everybody day so you had to find a specific close group of friends and it wasn't a very big group.
Yeah, some people from my neighbor neighborhood that moved to some people didn't like it. I mean, I wouldn't ever be down there as often. So when I go out with the skateboard it was always evil what I had one neighborhood friend asked me, and he knew
a lot of people in the neighborhood. So, I think he kind of kept me safe, but once I got old enough to just go outside and go up the street and wander all, I started going up the street up the hill to another neighborhood where a lot of my friends were
people that became my friend in his head saying. Interesting. This is me, which neighborhood was that, oh, it doesn't matter has a rage, and they call it between his rage.
15th place want to mess up the street from Parkland where I was, well moved to the party right here right, yeah. Okay, so let's back up a little bit because I just, I was really interesting we talked about the photography and
where your parents were were your parents born, my parents, my mom is from. She's from Greensboro, North Carolina.
Father's from. He's from here also southeast Washington DC.
And what are your parents do.
My mom, she passed away when I was four months.
Not sure for job title.
My day, He wasn't really in my life.
I was basically raised my grandparents,
my grandmother, She was like,
I mean, growing up, she just took care of family.
This okay I mean, it was a lot of like knuckleheads and my family.
If you can imagine just like what was going on in our neighborhood, my uncles, and cousins who they were just getting into different things, trying out different things so she kind of kept them all together we're just trying to keep the family together.
And my grandfather. He moved.
He came here from North Carolina. Also, and he used to work on a trash trash truck.
He will kind of trash truck, and then he went to Don.
So those are two people raised me growing up. Are you an only child.
Oh, no. My father has me, including me here for kids I have three older brothers, they suddenly get you the baby does your Does your mom have any other kids or were you the only child, I was the baby I have one older sister.
Okay, so you have four older siblings and mature baby on both sides. So were you spoiled, a bit much. But I still kinda.
I still kinda wasn't a sports at a point where it affected by my behavior, because I still was outside and I still see what was realistic.
We say that what do you mean, we're outside you saw what was realistic like what did you see, and how early did you realize like what was going on around you.
I was always like to be in different neighborhoods I would never just my neighborhood.
I had cousin into later on. I mean, rather, like it was close together within the same community but just branched off in different neighborhoods. So growing up, are saying, just like homeless people downtown.
And this when I started skateboarding downtown. And I say homeless people and dislike, a lot of just like people that didn't have much, that was out on the street.
You see the same, just like the same kids my age, no shirt on walking around and they may have the same passion for maybe three days, but they just walking around, and I just say Hey Tom, but they just look like.
You can just see that they just out there in the streets just looking for something.
And I'm not sure if they have a home or what type of environment they live in.
But this is the thing that kept me, kind of, kind of focus.
Needless to say, I sing.
Just like a lot of, a lot of people just like struggling.
So even in my own family. I didn't have everything I need it.
So, my grandfather had a government job, and he used to always try to get my family members jobs and things like that, in the same building.
He worked on both Air Force Base, so he's always trying to get relatives. My family a job, or just let them know without the just help them out because, I mean, at the high school most of my family members just try to get like small job.
Just to contribute.
You guys did all of your family or you guys close like did you all live in the same like within the same area the same vicinity of each other or were you kind of spread out throughout the city.
You know we always live together. I just within like the same within a five minute drive, maybe 10 minute walk.
So, I mean, I didn't come up with, with living with like a big house where a lot of my family members in it, but it seemed that way because my art issues always drive over to the house, and this way my cousins and I'm like in the mornings I remember growing
up, going to school in the morning.
She worked on both Air Force Base, and she had three, three kids my cousins and wakin up.
I still wake up for school, and I had to open a door. Come out there to open a door for my, my three cousins, because she had to leave out for work at six o'clock.
So she had to drop my cousin's off at our house, so that within like the next hour and a half didn't go to school from our house while she go to work at six.
So, I mean every morning I see my cousin, and my, my uncle. He used
my other cousin my older cousin. He used to live with us. My grandma. He was kind of back and forth out of jail. At one time in his life, and to keep home just like stable my, my grandma will let him live live with us, so he moved in with us.
And he was just like in the living room. And I was just back and forth and not in my room, going to school.
And just things like that, as a school, I will come home and all my cousins that went to school with me in the morning, or just went to school, they will all come back to my house and my after work she had be at my house sometimes.
So we all were together, but kind of just in different locations at the same time, right but it was kind of every day y'all saw each other.
It was never like you didn't see them for weeks and weeks. No, it was like the last day. I lost my mom will come pick me up I have my grandmother. She was always she lived on what she lives, she from she's from here, but she moved the water, and she's
My God, my God sisters and brothers. So, I have to be over there on the weekends and that helped me get away from it all, like this not be the same se my whole life, used to travel.
pick me up on the weekends, and take me to her house.
Disney World boys God and things like that. She had different on time shares and results that she should take us on. So that gave me another, another just like definition of family, because when I went over there we had a chore.
And we just had to wake up a certain time, you couldn't sleep like to sit around in a house.
She took my education with like, very important, like CS to her was the F us always have to have A's and B's and this influenced me.
Or she had like a overlay of like a more strict lifestyle. And she always gave me more room, because I wasn't like her blood child, but I still learned from these type of things.
She had her kids and young marine programs.
And just like Dr TC High School, and things like that so getting getting on neighborhood going over there and traveling and just doing chores, it just like gave me structure, and then what it made me want more than what I had, or what I seen this on a
regular basis throughout the week.
So to go over on the weekend.
He went over there like every weekend, every weekend, she used to come pick me up every weekend, like all I have to do is call her and pack my bag for the weekend I see your call.
So that was like your other cousins or even though they weren't really have cousins.
They were more like my sister and brother.
They were more like my sisters and brothers, you gave them my cousin it's like we are so close, they're like my sisters and brothers. So, now for your siblings like your older sister from your mom and then your debts, your older brothers did you live
with them at all or no my sister. She.
She was a, she was always in the house.
I was never in the house.
Yeah.
Talk to her when I'm in a house but other than that I'll be outside all the time. All the time. And Father my brothers, only know one of them he grew up going to my father's house maybe a couple times and seeing two of my brothers.
One of them I haven't seen and like forever, but one of my brothers he wrote a piece come pick me up, take me and my mom, my first cousin was like my brother he just took us like I remember one time we took a moment.
And we had a ball.
And he's taking me out, just taking me out just riding around with him. But most of the time he wouldn't be doing, but so much but just like hanging around by the stores with his friends right it's just taking me out with them.
And I'll probably just be sitting out there with him, or sitting in the car for a few minutes or hours, and then he'll bring me back in the house but he's always come pick me up at some point of time before he he got locked up.
And one of my arm. My brothers I need some my older brothers daylight and at 31 of them.
He's a Navy the one I didn't see. So all day. And the one that's on, he's like, close to my age.
I haven't really seen these guys like so much, we were real close, but, like, I know that they're my brothers. So we, I mean one of them.
He was more around me and other to read but it kind of worked out other from, I learned different things from these type of situation. But do you think What lesson Did you take from interacting with your brothers, or not having them in your life, like
you wanted them to what lesson Did you take from that, uh, it wasn't. No, like I didn't like anything.
I never really blame them for anything.
I just picked up like different experiences from me, like when I seen like when I started to see his face, I will remember him or stop there. Call him and talk to him about certain things, but I didn't really, I wasn't around him to pick up on like, just
like different things.
So I just took away as much as possible dislike from that interacts with.
No, no.
Okay.
How did you start coming to the Boys and Girls Club.
It's crazy because I came to the boys and girls.
Actually rejoined not too long ago. But when I first first are coming down here, was because one of my elementary school friends, and he was kind of like my brother, he's always hanging around.
We went to elementary school together at the school he lived right across the street from our went to school, Elementary School. Oh, damn straight. Yes.
So at the school has to go to his house. And sometimes we leave and go to my house, while his grandmother worked in the art side of the Boys and Girls Club.
Boys and Girls Club an artist connected, along with the Covenant House, his grandma worked in art, and we always come come in and just do our homework.
We come in I started just hanging out with him. So, of course, like, it didn't stop at just me going over his house we just went to school, I went over to his house and then we went to the Boys and Girls Club, or the art.
But when we hang around in his room of office, and then he'd be like okay, he has a bad says Grandma, and he said I'm going to have Boys and Girls Club, which is just walk right like open a door and go, go across it outside, right, that we all know, in
know in a Boys and Girls Club, and they replay like video games, and I didn't do much, because at the time, I wasn't a teenager, I couldn't get into the teen center.
That's what I always wanted to do I want to want to change.
For some reason, it was like a pool table Batman and things like that it was a game room I always play different games and like bumper table bumper pool.
And I pay at the wow I paid $20 cliffy his mom used to take me home at the club. So she got my grandparents involved, and they end up paying the club member fee.
And I came down and got my ID.
And I just always come down, but after a while my friend moved at the he moved. And I went to middle school, and I met new friends.
So they wasn't really coming down to the club I didn't have anybody telling me that I could tell you to go to a club and I thought it was no reason to come to the Boys and Girls Club at the my friend.
So I had nobody to really go with, and the people that the new friends I met at middle school.
They didn't go to the Boys and Girls Club, so I kind of forgot about it.
But
after like not being in the Boys and Girls Club.
I was just like, in the neighborhood of the street from where I live with my friends, like the group boss we'd always speak board. We took the street skateboard and I'd be in my friend house playing video games, or maybe like making escape videos like
editing our ski videos the videos we record throughout the day and putting them together, watching a movie or something like that and my friends house.
But last year my junior high school.
My cousin, because when I was going to elementary school my cousin used to play.
He was in.
He was in middle school. When I was in elementary school and he to play basketball play basketball for the club team.
And my junior year last year.
He came down and play basketball, he was gonna play basketball.
Basketball that he said, boys and girls.
Somewhere I haven't been known in a long time. You're going down and play basketball I'm coming down here with you. So, I just came in and they were just like a welcome NFL and when I came in, and I was coming in to just like play basketball.
And every cent the first time like that welcome filling, I just felt that saying welcome to fill in this over like again and again and again, because like
it was a way for me and my, my cousin to just like bond and connect to like transport and working out, and then out. I got out of the house, my friends, my friends that I was skateboarding with one of them moved to Texas.
Not too long ago so he was gone, used to always be in his house was an escape videos and watching movies and playing a video game so I didn't have too much to do besides be outside escape room by myself, or what one of my other friends that I was skiing
with back in the day.
So band oh hey I just
end up just this meeting, and running into different like resources. So, as come down to my started coming down became an active member. I met a lot of positive people.
Just like the multiple trips down here over the time, and it gave me a place just like just got to get out of the house.
I used to fall asleep, a lot. Just try and do my homework and a house, or maybe I couldn't focus because my grandfather and my sister was arguing, sometimes and I couldn't really focus does in a house, and like just trying to just lay down I, most of
time I did my homework in the house. I will lay down, and over, over a period of time I will fall asleep. And when I wake up, I wouldn't I wouldn't want to do anymore, or August Forget about it.
So coming out here gave me resources of just having like a computer like a few to access.
I didn't like using elaborate computers because it's time.
And at the runner. At that time period is over. If you're not finished your stuff possibly can be deleted.
And if you are finished, you just stuck in a scuffle just trying to hurry up.
Hurry receiving.
So, I didn't really like standing at the hours at the school was over to type of X a sad you probably gave you the resources are having a computer, and just being around positive people.
And then after a while I started like just joining programs, and even programs that I just listened on alarm stuff like money, how to manage your money.
They had ms makers photography program. They gave me the opportunity to dislike, like this then my art of the photography in high school, doing it.
Doing I'm doing school time. So, at the school was over.
So, after school was over. I can take what I learned in class down here to image makers, photography program at the boys and girls.
And till my club members will learn about photography in school, and they're learning from me and we're learning at the same time. And with this, I'm still focusing on photography and I was doing photography so photography became like our for me but it
became like 24 seven. My from just me taking pictures on my phone to come down here and using a different Nikon and Canon Canon with to being a school.
Using a Canon camera, and they have in the same computer I had at school, working on.
What I didn't have.
Did they have Photoshop on the computers now and the Boys and Girls Club but I'm still till club members, how to use it, or what I learned is Photoshop and that are we using Photoshop, and they had a photo they are used in school so I was just doing the
same thing so school when I came down here along with doing my homework and knocking over things out, and over that time I found a mentor Mr.
And it's crazy man we was just talking about how we met not too long ago, and it was just me playing basketball, and I just learned his name just from the upperclassmen was calling him calling him.
And they had a while we started playing around with him.
Actually me just about just about the money situation like my mom member fee.
And he was talking about that, and got the money.
And we just clicked, he started helping me out.
No BS always just pay extra 15 minutes maybe 15 to 30 minute minutes, waiting for me. Then the last person out the Boys and Girls Club. Some nights, trying to type my essay or finish my essay.
Before, It was due.
So he helped me out with that part.
And just like just him live in not too far from where I live, we both lived up the street. So I can always call him, or if I need to talk to him I can just leave my house and walk a block down the street and go to his house, so he was always open.
I mean just not in the Boys and Girls Club by our side too. So that really helped me.
Just like having a mentor. And just like just different type of mentor Scott loved up, I mean you can find a mentor. and
just a person that's on the street, and I don't know legal things, or you can just have multiple mentors we learn from your older friend Scott had an older friend.
Growing up, I'd always learned from him, that though everything he did was right. And that's the only the only way to do things. Mister, and I'm like, Oh, well, something she told me, or wrong, and it's possible that people that's older than you can be
wrong sometimes. So, lot of time. Yeah, it gave me a different, different aspects on things.
So, if you had to choose one of your.
If you had to choose one experience and say this was my best experience at the Boys and Girls Club, what would it be.
It's very hard to choose one. Okay, I'll give you two.
Probably will be.
Maybe just like going on a field trip. We have a lot of field trips and officials on my favorite part of being down at the Boys and Girls Club. One of my favorite field trips was
the most Macy's window on villain was just this past December, a past, and we went out to Macy's
without cameras. It was like
it was.
It was like a three layer trip where from the morning, I think from like eight o'clock to maybe 12, we were out making Thanksgiving baskets for families who didn't have them, and families came in to get the baskets and a turkeys and things like that.
And they weren't a fan of basketball.
Making t shirts, just a whole lot of different activities, along with having just having fun.
So that was the first part of the day. And after we left from, from doing that, of course I was taking pitches, and I got a lot of good pitches from that event.
We left and we went to Macy's downtown Washington DC, and we seen different performances from people who like.
Remember, Molly music he was there, he performed. And my first time ever seen him perform. It was amazing. And I got a lot of different pictures of him on stage with the famous ballerina she came from the shape or form.
Or she didn't perform She. She was inside Macy's given her autograph and taking pictures.
So after that event. We kept moving and that event was a pretty cool to me because my high school band.
The majestic majestic marching nights were there, and I got pictures of my high school band, while I was at the event.
So, now I heard them perform which is amazing because they're so good.
Coming out of warranty.
Southeast DC.
So after that, we went to Maryland University, and it was for.
I think it was for like, we went to like this screen and this was a video about it was based on just music with music come from and and went all the way back to just like Africa, and being on Congo's and things of that nature.
And they had like this.
A lot of people just like dancing and playing the Congo.
And it was a video premiere. If I were screening.
And I just got to see just like different culture.
And just like like face to face with people who just like her dress.
So it was a learning experience and throughout this whole day I got like maybe 800 pictures.
Throughout the whole day, which was really good for me because I took him back to school, of course, I took him back to my photography teacher in school, and he said they were amazing.
And it was building my portfolio. And again, expanding on my art, just given me a lot of a deeper love for photography. But I was like my favorite.
One of my favorite memories I did man down at the Boys and Girls Club.
And another one.
Think it had to be.
It was a laser tag in a field trip. We went on overnight laser tag. It was crazy for.
We went around about. I think it's about nine o'clock at night.
And we got back around seven, eight o'clock that morning.
But we went in to the laser tag facility. And it was like this big laser tag, or bringing along with like this course.
I think, Virginia.
They had tactical, which is like, it's like a call of duty type of laser tag and we use like more realistic guns, and they look realistic and you, you do like a mission.
It's just not just like shooting lasers at each other. You just like, it's like an assignment that you got to achieve throughout the on time period of game.
And then along with a band those two things there was like miniature golf, which was crazy and then he had a night. Yeah, they had mentioned golf section in there.
It was like made out of wood.
And like fake grass. There's like part, it was real fun though.
And I had beverages. And like we brought a lot of things to snack on.
And it was one other thing that were there that we did Oh, they had an Xbox. And there's like a projector screen from like the top of this platform that had laser tag and this out of it.
So you can sit on. Like it's kind of like this patio, if you will and play the game from this projector screen as on the other side of the wall, going like, like, over top of the tactical course, and we can play the Call of Duty or NBA NBA basketball
game.
So, between those four different activities, I mean you can only imagine like we had a blast the whole night, and I stayed up all night. Yeah, try to.
And so, obviously.
Well I stayed up the whole night. But I fell asleep on a bus ride, we, we left around six seven o'clock, and we stopped at McDonalds before we went home after en, man.
I went, I went straight to sleep, and we still have pictures of it.
And I think I saw a couple of those pictures, do you think the club change your life or save July. Yes, most definitely.
I think the clothes saved my life. Because it's just like a lot of, like, just a lot of deaths in my neighborhood.
Just my environment, just, it's just from being in the wrong place at the wrong time.
So the curve just kept me out of the out of the way of things, I mean I never had intent to just be in the streets.
But I mean, a lot of people who, who pass away or, like, every day, day to day that they don't have just like no attempt on this being somewhere.
Doing something they had no business, they can just be walking around doing some wrong place wrong time, and get killed. So I think the club this kept me out of the way.
Do you two things. So who was this musician you were telling me about I didn't know that. I don't know that musician, we were saying that the first event we all went the three, the long day.
And then you got to see some musician performer who was in Mali music, who's Mali music.
My music is.
I'm not sure where he's from. I think he's wrong again Vito by. He has just like he said, different artists to me because he has like this smooth type of read them.
and he's like our arm.
Our leasing, if you will.
And I heard his music that one time. And like when I had him on a radio station now, it always rings a bell to me, and I still have these amazing pictures of him being on stage and saying yes, we actually took pictures inside when to as a group.
So, I think he just like an r&b singer. Do you listen to gogo yeah my, I mean I have cousins, and things of that nature, other mentors skateboarder ours escape will still speak with a lot.
I growing up I just keep it alive. And so skateboarder coming from Southeast Washington DC.
And as a skateboarder coming from Southeast Washington DC. His name is Darren hopper.
And he's an amateur skateboarder, and he had like a lot of different sponsorships and things of that nature. And the way he got him is just as hard working, like, it is very hard working, when he wasn't on a skateboard, I can imagine him just like working
out very aggressively, and the way he got sponsors because he got like, I mean coming out of selfies skateboarding is not like in our culture. We don't see it as all there.
So, he just had like he brung the element of like just like a half pop to skateboarding, and that's what got him sponsor he just always jump high everything he did on a skateboard was very high.
And that way, he was very athletic. So,
I met with him to like one of my friends skateboard and that was like his cousin. So me and my, me and my friend like this is like.
He went to middle school with me.
After he taught him how to skateboard, because I was the first person in my neighborhood woman I went up the street to Hester race, I was the first person to skateboard, because they never skateboard and they rode bikes and stuff.
So I brought a skateboard and update another while I had the whole like our whole neighborhood ski and up there with about six of us, and some play basketball and stuff like that but they were still skateboard and because it was cool, and it kept us out
of trouble and stuff like that. When I met their habit to one of our middle school friends that I taught how to skateboard, and he kept skateboard and with me and he progress.
When we start skiing with dirt and he actually is an amateur skateboarder and he does video photography.
And he has his own.
He doesn't have an ongoing.
I don't think so but he's a part of a global band he plays the candles very well. And, my God, my one of my brother lives in water.
He has a, he found his own Google bear going up in my grandmother's house and water.
She set up in the garage, she allowed me to set up his own like drum set that he worked in and saved his money for his friends to come over and she was very supportive of them.
And he's always just like in the house he had a keyboard.
The keyboard, and then he got a drum set. So they found the band. And I always listen to them. And I was into it and just things like that that kept me until I go go with it I always like to dance growing up, so of course like from here down here a lot
of people be the feet and stuff like that, so I picked up on it, just like they beat the feet with them. Yeah, this is like a form of dance, and it's just like a lot of movement and foot motion.
Yeah, it's just like a lot of different, different places have your own type of style of dance. So that's what the DC had a call the beach your feet, and they got different groups to perform and they'll do it.
So, have you ever been to, like a gogo party outside of like your God brothers band playing but like in area. Yeah, man on a go goes.
I mean we was my god brothers about four years older than me So give us a call with their friends and stuff, so I met neighborhood again in the neighborhood of water off.
Charles County.
Mom lived in banister circle. So I met a lot of friends around my bike and stuff like that. So I thought, wow.
They, my friends, of course, listen to music, starting with Chicago stuff like that starts to go like Well, some night, so whenever my friend, or moms let him go.
I always go out with him. As long as I checked in.
That's something that I learned from my grandmother to I got in the habit of just contacting my folks and letting them know why me where I am. This is this periodically throughout the day, like most of the time,
every hour to that pass, let them know call on that and no one checking in.
I used to.
And what all.
A lot of our be our had to come and check in to my grandmother's house, and let her know when I'm also doing that I'm all that I'm okay. And then I come back I'll make sure I give me some water or something to eat, and then go back.
And then as I got older, she didn't use my cell phone call.
Will meet to grab my skateboard.
Not really done anything to get myself in trouble. I still chat there, and things like that. Do you ever feel like it was a time when you since you talked about travel deflect there was a time when you were afraid for like your life where you felt like
you were really unsafe.
Like I know you talked about a lot of the neighborhood beats and stuff like that Do you ever feel like there's a time where you were like, Oh my god, this is something happened to me.
It was a number of times by just in my neighborhood, they have beef with the neighborhood.
Probably like exactly two minutes away, or like a block or two away from us. So, of course that neighborhood and my neighborhoods always fight.
And just like, get into altercations, which led to like one of the well known neighborhood males to get shot and killed.
So like this like a fear for my life would just just coming down the hill at night on my skateboard around the corner from maybe one of the local neighborhood skateboard spots that we used to skate, or coming from downtown.
Freedom Plaza.
Shaw skate park downtown. I had to come down to my stable and of course must be what makes a loud noise. Being nighttime when night, as always this be Canada's like paranoid.
Look at my hammy and watching out this for people and cause and things like that because I would never, I never knew if something will happen to me just coming down the hill, because I just know that like this is crazy people out there just in my neighborhood.
And when this other neighborhoods trying to tackle us. I mean they don't care. They see somebody on the skateboard they probably think it's funny to shoot at them, or knock them off escape or things like that and especially if you be from with the neighborhood,
you already assume that that person on the skateboard is from that neighbor.
So, I fear for my life and that and that type of way. and with my.
I know my my friends we always had any type of back. So if anything will happen.
US is always alert each other, walking around, always walk, watch my back. I didn't get into too many fist fights growing up, just because it's like when I see people behind me, or walking behind me I was always cross the street.
First thing I did when I've been to corner naked and see me anymore is just like run, just get a block or two ahead, just so that I wouldn't be in a hurry anymore.
And just things like that.
Other than that,
I don't think anything like bad, really went Tim, What went through my mind, I was always positive.
Always humble.
Growing up, I didn't think I had to like no crazy thing like career going around on me, or anything to protect myself. I didn't think about it that way.
But as a lot of times I think back and I could have like I could have been day, just being wrong place wrong turn.
I see it on the news all the time to someone being just someone being like this.
Somewhere wow what path, are they, they are shot and killed or just situations that happen for NASA, like all the nonsense that could have just easily happen to me.
But I thought I just try to stay focused, stay humble. So now you're at you just graduated from high school what's next call it so I'll be telling john Johnson c Smith.
But then, like, The next two weeks.
And I want to major business management and get like a man in photography, but most likely on which is good day and be on the side because I'm not very sure it's not anything like it's not there.
None of my ideas.
So I was thinking about as far as photography I want to be like a self taught photographer, I don't really want to waste any money cries, or learning in school.
I want to be like a self taught photographer. And then, other than that, I want to just maybe do business management or entrepreneurship, or something like that.
But I think when I get down my just had to figure things out, as they come.
Are you the first one in your family to go to college. Yes, I'll be the first one in my family to attend college. My, my grandfather went to college.
When they stay.
So I think he went there for a while he was in college, like maybe like a trade school or
community college for like a month before he stopped going, he got into the service, other than a lot of my especially my immediate family members, they haven't not have went to the next level, and like, further education from Haskell.
What's your favorite book or movie, and why.
My favorite movie.
I would say is, Will Smith, the pursuit of happiness. And just like that, it's just like struggles and Will Smith and then moving into like trials and tribulations, with just like getting his, his son to daycare and morning, and over top of that he had
thousand more things to do, where it was getting to work on time in the morning.
Getting What do you had at the time, which was like a natural thing was a computer or something that base.
Getting that to work every morning and getting the sun dress.
And just all these different elements.
Just like came together within, within like four hours five hours, and he had to blend all these things that make that, make sure that everything runs smoothly smoothly throughout every day, in order to make it.
So like that inspired me.
And just like just saying is moving and watching this movie.
You see the willpower with Will Smith head.
And like just taking this on to orphanage. And at the same time studying so you can get a promotion at work.
Just like sitting in a hallway or bear from trying to read a book.
When he did everybody. Hi.
The source of like, just things like that.
As like the draft that he had in a movie, and people do this on a regular basis. I mean, life is not like silver spoon for everybody. And people go through struggles with that what makes people make it in life, like what I feel like you have that same
drive. Yes, I think I had that same drive, and sometimes are on what my generation is ran off with just like cell phone and electronic now the source can easily from, it's easier for me to get distracted.
But, as you're learning to just stay focused. But as long as our focus. Yeah.
So, if you could leave a piece of advice to your generation, or, you know, to the other kids at the Boys and Girls Club or, or the people in DC.
for that piece of advice be
a piece of advice for be
hard times doesn't last.
But like, well, tough town Don't laugh but what tough people do in a sense to like,
if you go to school. I mean, try your best for the certain amount of hours you're in a school, or a certain amount of years in a school because after a while you're going to look up in your school anymore, by people I mean people complain about our school
school systems and this, and what they go through on their side, but it's a lot of people are willing to help and support us.
And they just don't know because they don't look up at the bright side, or they just don't open a mouse, and something that says, often but it's very true is that are closed mouth don't get fed now learned that the hard way which is being quiet and not
talking most of the time because I gotta add it to what that really affects the opportunities and opportunities that you're going to get in life, and I got a lot of opportunities.
Just by just being positive and going into school.
And he's been passionate about what I did.
And just don't allow to different things. Have you.
One thing I think as a photographer, you may have but a lot of people come to DC because of the monuments and the museums and people who live here like never go.
Have you been a tourist in your own town. Yes, today I actually had it till my first time being in a White House inside the White House.
It's my first time is amazing day for yesterday I was in.
Eisenhower building, which is like the West Wing of the White House.
I never been in a. It was actually for.
We were discussing the initiative that Obama created.
My Brother's Keeper. And we had around house discussion.
Just like different.
My Brother's Keeper communities, and how to
just install and stem and the amount of mentorship that kids and young people like me will have growing up.
So, I think it's a real big part of being from selfie, and learning who you are, and learning what you come from.
I mean I think if if Canada crazy not to take advantage of seeing things like the White House where you live. I mean, literally a training right away from it.
Because in a sense that open your mind up. A lot of people who struggle is on just like the other side of the bridge and when people think of Washington DC, they always think of the president house, and the memorials, and the capital.
And if you don't learn about that type of stuff there. How can you make it out of your environment.
Because it's possibilities.
But I think
before actually today and yesterday I never been to,
to the White House or as our building.
And it was like kind of life changing for me
open my eyes to a lot of things that were going on. I'm not really into politics, but it's not the wrong woman into politics, and it's a possibility for everyone to begin to pop out of politics and abroad your resume.
After you pick up the newspaper. And over time, of just me reading newspaper picked up on different type of things. So, I mean, it's good. I know a lot of family members are there a lot of stuff that my family members can say in a day.
So, that's pretty crazy to me.
But I think I have a role, and I had expectation of teaching my family about things like though my own younger cousins and nephews and nieces, things like that.
So if they can achieve more than me on a grew up.
Do you eat Mambo sauce. Yes.
How do you okay so how do I order. What do you have a favorite place you get it from a
Haskell always always go to Hong Kong, and that's to carry out maybe like a block or two down from a high school.
And as for everybody.
I mean if you go to.
If you go to school and you participate at school activities, most likely you have a Hong Kong.
And so triggering us and maybe like fair right and Mambo sauce.
So what is number salts, no sauce is like, I think is like a mixture of like barbecue sauce and have sauce.
Along with.
Maybe.
Maybe some mixture of sauces, but it doesn't taste like just catch up or just hot sauce. And it's not to hat.
And it's not like to tango goes like, I mean it's a perfect mixture of sauce. I different sauces to me, my opinion, and it goes great on sugar.
So, what's your favorite place to hang out in DC.
And our favorite place to hang out in DC. It has to be freedom Plaza freedom Plaza because I love, I love the skateboard. And this case a noun is crazy.
mob ledges and just things and names. Important names and things that have a history and car, nice stone, but it's a smooth surface for skateboarders to learn tricks.
And this route around. Park Police. Every so often chase you.
And as you get caught you can get fat, or maybe have your skateboard take taken away, but it's a great way to meet new friends. And if your photographer get pitches.
And it's always cool, it's like it's always just a good,
a good mood.
Everyone, down in freedom Plaza, is, is in a good mood, most of the time it's a good bad and good place to chill, along with you fast when she. The CVS, something to drink.
On behalf ego. Ego Marina.